- [Instructor] So we're about done talking
about all of the high level material
before we actually get into code.
And the last thing I want to talk
about is the database itself,
and in this case, Postgres.
Now Postgres is
an object relational database management system.
Now what does that actually mean?
What it means is that it is
a relational database management system,
and that's what we're going to focus on.
But they've also added support for object models,
which gives you some similarities
to an object oriented programming construct,
and that's why a lot of developers
in the OOP space like Postgres.
One of the most important things from my perspective
is that it's free and open source software,
and it is truly free and truly open source,
and I love that.
It was started at University of California Berkeley,
and it is a fully ACID compliant and transactional database,
which is very important if you're doing systems
that require all of your relations
to be transactionally written and to be ACID compliant.
Some of the other features that I like about the database
and a couple of which we will leverage in this course
include things like the fact
that it supports materialized and updatable views.
It also supports triggers natively.
Many databases don't support triggers,
or things that get added on to
remove the ability to use triggers,
and I find triggers to be very valuable in the real world
when you're trying to trigger asynchronous actions
based on data being written.
Postgres also supports functions and stored procedures,
and we're going to leverage stored procedures in this course.
Another key feature is that Postgres runs
on every major operating system and it runs in Docker,
which is how we're going to leverage it in this course.
But again, it runs on every major OS,
so if you don't want to mess with Docker,
you can run this on any operating system
that most of us would be using.
So again, why did I choose it
as the database for this course?
It's easy to run locally,
and we've talked about that ad nauseum at this point.
It also supports a large section of ANSI standard SQL.
And I'm a big fan of not using vendor specific SQL,
unless you absolutely have to.
Using ANSI standard SQL allows you to leverage
that SQL across multiple databases.
It also supports stored procedures,
which is a learning concept
that I wanted to add into this course.
And finally, it has a solid security model.
Now we're not going to manipulate
the security model per se in this course,
but I don't want to use a database
for such an important topic
that doesn't have a built-in solid security model
from the beginning.
And with that,
we're ready to jump in and actually start working
with the database and with some Java code.